### Introduction
[RVTools](http://www.robware.net/rvtools/) is a VMware utility that connects to a vCenter and gathers a lot of information on virtual machines, ESX hosts and the datacenter. The data collection is fast and the end result can be stored in a Microsoft Excel file. RVTools exports are a great way to perform sizings for hyper-converged solutions based on VxRail or VxRack. However the analysis of RVTool exports of complex environment can be time-consuming, error-prone and cumbersome.   
  
The purpose of **graphR** is to automatize and simplify the analysis of RVTools exports and to give a visual presentation of the information contained within the Excel file.

### Instructions
The use of **graphR** is designed to be simple and should be self-explanatory. Just upload the Excel file after inserting a title and author name and hit *Generate Report*.  
The RVTools export should at least contain the following columns:  
VM, Powerstate, CPUs, Memory, Network #1, Provisioned MB, In Use MB, Datacenter, Host, OS according to the configuration file 


### Caution
The Excel file should not be altered in any kind, e. g. by inserting comments, changing column names or inserting new rows manually.  
RVTools capture the VMware environment with an impressive level of detail, but solely the VMware environment. If a customer uses native filers in his current classical datacenter these are not going to be captured by the RVTools and will not be represented in the report generated by **graphR**. Thus native filers should be considered separately when sizing for a hyper-converged solution.

### Acknowledgements
Thanks for support:  
Ulrich Hölscher, Alexander Kusterer

### Feedback
Please provide feedback, new ideas or bugs to [stephan.michard@emc.com](mailto:stephan.michard@emc.com)

